We would now move into a section on conditions and loops.
We would not really discuss the basics of Eve switch or things like that.
What we look at is the corner cases.
So what we start off with is why should you use blocks around a statement consider a piece of code like
this here debate format.
It is as if the number plus plus is part of the if statement.
But really speaking it's not because when you don't have a block when you don't have braces around if
then only the first statement after the if is part of the If so this is same as making adding an open
procedure.
And here the number plus plus it's not part of the if and this can be confusing in certain times.
So even if there is one statement in the if then it's suggested to add blocks around it so that in future
somebody at a line of code there it's already part of the if otherwise it will result in code like this
which will be difficult to maintain.
Next let's look at a simple example so I'm sending a value of 15 to M and this is the code which is
present what would be the output of this particular.
You can pause the video here.
Try and think about it and come back and see what they are.
So actually the output is nothing is going to be printed because this and that if else is considered
to be what they meant.
So what would happen if M is 15 so f is if M is greater than Grantley's or 15 greater than 20 no so
then that if is kept and nothing is printed to the output if you have to really look at it the chord
is something like that so you kind of have a block statement around the entire If ends.
Let's look at the next example triangles the output of this is true is false then what would happen
which one of these statements is printed to is true it is true in this is equal to true.
Print this out.
But think about it and come back.
Thing is it's true has a value of false so false is equal to true no.
So this will not be printed.
However the thing is here I am not using a comparison.
So this is something which you should be cautious about.
So here I am using double is equal is equal to double.
The goal is to do is comparison.
However single is equal to is assignment.
So what we are doing here is we are saying a value of true true is true and the assignment statement
also returns that value back.
So the crew will be written and this statement will be printed.
So the important thing to note in here is whether an assignment operator is used.
I mean this is the assignment operator and this is the comparison operator you should always be careful
whether a competition operator or assignment operator which one is used and you should be careful and
in a if condition always you should use a comparison operator not assignment operator.
Next we'll move into switch.
So let's try and get the output of this Pacific's switch block.
So a number is assigned a value of 2.
So what would happen.
The important thing to realize in here is the fact that there are no breaks in all the cases.
So what would happen when this matches K-Stew.
So the Fall Through happens so all of these statements are executed.
So the output would be 2 3 and default.
The next example we have a number which is as a value of 2 and we are doing a switch out here.
So here Case 2 and case that we had the same logic so he had the end making use of default threw in
a right way.
So we have breaks in every statement we want to have the same logic for case in case 3.
So we are letting kids to fall through and we're actually printing the statement but is 2 or 3.
And after this break would happen.
So you go out of the switch so the only thing which would be printed is number is 2 or 3.
The next thing is should default be the last case in a switch statement.
Actually not you can have default anywhere and it just acts as the default.
So for example look at the switch below.
So a number has a value of 10 and none of the cases match.
So what will be excluded.
The default is the one which would be executed.
You can have a default anywhere in us which can a switch statement be used on the string.
In the earlier versions of Java you were only allowed to switch around Garib by chart.
And that's basically integer kind of variables but with the latest version of Java you can also switch
around a string and interims what is an enhanced for loop.
This Ensley for loops can be used to loop around areas and LIST.
This was introduced in Java.
Five and this would easily I love you to loop around numbers so you can look at it.
Down here it's quite a simple thing.
So you have an array.
So number column numbers and you're pulling the numbers so does the output of that specific program.
This code does compile.
The answer is yes you can have empty but empty statement in all the three part of the for loop.
This would almost act like a finite.
So this will keep looping for ever what we're doing in here is we're trying to look at the logic and
look at the corner cases it switch with loops and things like that.
All the examples that we're talking about are in here and there's a package called common 28 minutes
to our floor and there are examples continue examples do while for a loop a failed switch and why loop
example.
So we are looking at extract from these examples in here.
If you really want to understand them fully I would really recommend you to open the code in here and
try and play around with it.
So this would give you a real good understanding off the floor.
I mean the floor statements are basically if a switch while do while.
And the for loop.
So you can play around with them in here.
Now Grant gets the output of this particular program.
So there's a break statement here.
So what would happen is it would break out of the loop.
So what the big statement does is it breaks out of the innermost loop so the loop is this one.
So when our case file it breaks out of this loop and it goes out to the outer loop.
So that's exactly how you'd see that whenever case having a value of five.
It would break out and it would go to the old Outer Loop and it would continue printing that means.
So this loop will be broken out of.
But it would still continue exiting the outer loop.
So a break Sigmond breaks out of the inner most loop.
You can also use labels on the loops.
So here I have a label off outer on the first loop and when I'm breaking out I'm using outta here.
So when I say break out it would actually break out when this condition is met.
It would break out of this loop so it will break out of the in the loop as well as the outer loop.
So basically labels are used when we want to break out of the outer loop.
So not just the loop but I want to break out of the outer loop also then I would use the break statement
with a label if the discussion until now seemed little at once.
Then I would really recommend you to do an exercise and spend some time at least 10 to 15 minutes looking
at all the examples in this specific package.
There are a lot of examples in here.
You can look at them.
I mean there are multiple means to explain what's happening in there.
So you can look at them and try and understand the basics very well.
And the next step.